---
title: Climate Change and Our Perspective (Existential Crisis 3)
updated: 2016-08-08 10:38
categories: 
  - thoughts
---

Global climate is changing. The average temperature of earth has increased over the last few decades and is increasing at an alarming rate. Global worming is fueling the loss of arctic ice which in turn is fueled by the extensive use the petroleum and petroleum processing. As a result sea levels are increasing and puts nations in danger who had nothing to contribute to the global warming. 

blah blah blah... We all know how the story goes on. There is no denying the fact that sea level is rising and global worming is responsible. This is the general knowledge that we tend to believe and whoever don't know this is nothing but an idiot. Yet there is a school of thought shared by very powerful people that climate change is a hoax designed to prevent the development of modern society. I know what you are thinking. These are the things that stupid politicians claim to get votes from stupid voters.The US republican party has been using this rhetoric for quite a while. Not only them there many other who thinks man made gobal worming is horse shit. Well it is accepted for politicians to talk crap. But what about the people who fall for these words? There was time when I used to think that someone needs to be special kind of stupid to support these politicians. Well this is where the story begins. We only experience part of the story. These politicians are nothing but puppets of a powerful few. These are the ones who owns this planet. They own the money and the banks. And money can buy anything as it seems. Many of them are associated with petroleum business. And above anything profit is their only goal. They are able to manipulate the media and have the politicians make law that suits them. They need to sell oil to make profit and consequently destroy environment. Supporters of climate change make things difficult for them to expand their business. Now if you can establish that the promethium has nothing to do with global worming and climate change you have a strong argument to continue your oil business. One group of people suggest that burning coal and petroleum is directly correlated with the recent climate change. There is some other group who are skeptical. They think that the planet is subject to climate change ever since its birth and human activity has little to do with that. The petroleum business takes advantage of this statement. They provide money to those people as research funding and ask them to establish that human activity has nothing to do with climate change. At the same time they provide funding to find out more inexpensive way to refine crude oil into usable oil. Some of the graduate students like us will do work under those funding and find out results which they will be using and do more damage to the environment. These petroleum business also provide money to the politicians for their election campaign. In return they make laws for them to do oil business without any trouble from environmentalists. There is a reason why certain political groups say climate change is a hoax. They receive huge amount of money from them to do so. Technically receiving this kind of money is bribe and is illegal. But they have managed to replace the word bribe with lobbying and made it completely legal. Ever heard of Koch brothers? They have their business into petroleum and they fund a lot of university professors and politicians who think climate change is not a big thing. Ok. Why am I talking about this? I always thought that whichever professors work on these funding are not big names and not everyone believes them. I can directly see that climate change is a real thing. Sea levels are rising and tv serial stars has to come to bangladesh to make documentaries and raise awareness about the near danger of climate change. But I recently got across a youtube video from Prager University channel[^1] where an Emeritus MIT professor claims he is skeptical that human activities has very little to do with climate change. I had a firm believe that people from MIT are those who does't talk horseshit and know facts. But now I don't know what to believe anymore. It hit me like a hammer. Either we are not told what the actual news is or this MIT professor has sold his soul to money. There is a video from veratasium channel[^2] where they show how the conflicting ideas of climate change gets people confused. 

At this point I am confused. What is to believe. Either I am getting too much manipulated by the media or I am actually beginning to wake up. 

----------------------------------------

[^1]:[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OwqIy8Ikv-c](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OwqIy8Ikv-c)
[^2]:[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OWXoRSIxyIU](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OWXoRSIxyIU)



